[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>This next little one, you're
going to have fun with this.
And in the three areas
that the Atlanteans went,
which was Egypt and Peru,
Yucatan, and Tibet, that area,
up in there, there
was-- each one
of these religious
groups that are now
seemingly different
have a sect to them,
a separate little area, that is
different than everyone else.
And that is this little
group that are set aside
are cross-eyed.
They're like this all the time.
I don't know if they
were born that way,
but they go around all day
like this all the time.
And they're not
cross-eyed at random.
This is what we're
beginning to understand.
They were seeing differently.
We look at the
surface of things,
and they were looking at
a space in front of you
or in front of whatever
they looked at.
They looked at a particular
place in front of it.
If they were going to
look at this thing here,
they wouldn't look at that.
They would look at a
place here in front,
and they would see something
different than what
everyone else would see.
And they were also artists,
and they did a lot of artwork
on the walls that we didn't even
understand what the heck it was
until more or less recently.
This artwork would usually be
two somewhat symmetrical things
that would look
kind of like they
were turned toward each other.
And if you were to look
at this artwork that
was on-- if you
were to just go look
at the artwork like a tourist,
you'd look at it, and you'd go,
what the heck is that?
It wouldn't make a lot
of sense, and you'd just
walk away from it and
think it was just one
of those weird things they did.
But if you were trained,
and you looked at it,
the object would come
together in this pattern,
pop out into space three
dimensional, just as real as 3D
as this room is.
And I mean where you
can put your hand
behind it, this kind of thing.
It would be a three
dimensional object in space.
That's still valid
even today in 1993.
[LAUGHTER]
And it'd still be valid.
You can still do it.
But no one-- and we just
became aware of this,
because it actually
started, as I understand it,
with nurses and doctors who
were looking at x-ray photos.
And they found this technique of
looking at x-ray photos in such
a way that they could
make the x-ray photo three
dimensional by looking
at it in this funny way.
And then they could see
into an x-ray photo of 3D
and see where things were, even
though it was a flat photo.
And later, this became known
as a ster-- and from that,
they were able to turn it into
something called stereogram,
and there's other
names for this,
but that's kind of
the one that stuck.
And so there is what I call
stereogrammic vision that
is possible.
It's a different way
that human beings
can see than they normally see.
Holograms-- these are holograms.
Can you see these things?
I can aim one at one body.
Like she can see it now.
Let's see.
Like little mirrors.
You can see it now.
Can you see that?
[LAUGHTER]
I can blind people.
Anyway, these are
ones we made up.
If you get them in the light,
they're really beautiful.
Our lady of Guadalupe--
but this is a hologram.
When you do look at a hologram,
it does do one of the things
that we're wanting
to do, which is
it turns both sides of your
brain on simultaneously.
You can't see a hologram,
unless you can flip
both sides on at the same time.
But there's another way,
there's another form
of three dimensional art--
the stereogram, which
is based on a slightly different
principle that will also turn
both sides of the brain on.
And so this is one
of the reasons why
I want to do this
is that it gives you
the experience of having
both sides of your brain on,
which is something that
we don't get too much.
When you're listening
to music with words,
you've got both sides
of your brain on.
If you hear someone
singing, it's
got to be with the rhythm
of the music and singing.
That does it.
But this is unique.
stereogram is unique, because
there's an area of your brain.
It's called area
39, I think it is.
I believe it's 39.
It's behind your right eye.
Maybe it's 37.
I think it's [INAUDIBLE].
Anyway, it's one of those.
And it's back here.
It's a little tiny
area back there,
which is where your
imagination takes place.
And so you're going to look at
something here in a little bit.
It looks like this.
This looks like nothing, right?
This looks like a bunch
of dots on a page,
but it isn't, because
there's actually something
out here in space.
There's some words out here
that you can't see right now,
but you can imagine
them to be there.
When your imagination takes
over in a certain way, when
you learn how to see
stereogrammically,
your imagination takes over.
This area 39 gets stimulated,
and bingo-- these words
will pop off into space
out in front of you,
and you'll start seeing
stereogrammically.
There's another reason--
the other thing that happens
is the corpus callosum
links together somehow,
and the pituitary
gland gets stimulated,
and this chemical that
was in-- you go into theta
is the other thing very quickly.
And this chemical starts
being emitted from here
very slowly, same one that
was in the King's Chamber.
And at first, it feels-- you
can't believe the feeling
if you haven't felt it before.
And then it starts feeling
really, really good.
If you stay in it
a real long time,
you don't want to get back out.
When we first started
experiment with this,
I just didn't want
to get out of it.
And I have to make a little
kind of a disclaimer.
No, that's not a good word.
I don't know what it is.
So far, I've never had a class
where every single person could
do it.
If you have a
difference in your eyes,
where one eye is near-sighted
and one eye is far-sighted,
for example, you may
not be able to do this.
If you have too much
astigmatism in one eye,
and it's not balanced
in the other,
if there's too much
differences between your eyes,
you may not be able to do this.
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>What?
>>Yeah, you can do
it with glasses,
and you can do it with contacts.
The way you want to
learn how to do this
is whatever way you read.
However you read, if you
take your glasses off to read
or you put different ones
on to read or whatever,
be prepared to read for
this, because you're
going to have this up
close like you're reading.
So there may be
some of you in here
that won't be able to do this.
If you can't do it, it's OK.
You didn't flunk, and
it's just the way it goes.
It's all right.
I want to get as many as
I can of this if I can,
but really, it doesn't mean
a thing if you can't get it.
There is another reason why I
want to get-- there's about one
out of every 200 or 300 people
that this will have a greater
meaning to than what I
can truly express to you,
because in the priesthood,
there was only a very, very few
who were able to understand
what this really meant.
And they were able
to look into a room
and see stereogrammically.
And they could see something
different in the room.
But even if only get one
out of every 200 or 300
or whatever it
is, it's worth it.
But nevertheless, we'll
just do the best we can.
So if you don't get it, it's OK.
Really, I mean
don't cry or poison.
And also, usually I
only get about 60%
of the room,
something like that.
What I've also found
is about 1/2 to 2/3
of the people who don't get
it here, when they go home,
and they're relaxed--
because this has a lot
to do with being able to relax.
It's like meditation.
You can't go into a meditation
and say, I'm going to meditate.
There's a certain
relaxation you've got to do,
and a lot of times, when
people are trying to do this,
they start getting
more and more tense,
because they're not doing it.
And so they start getting
tenser and tenser,
and that makes it harder.
And so a lot of times when you
go home, and no one's around,
and you don't have to
prove anything to anybody,
you can relax,
and you'll see it.
I'm going to give
you one of these.
It'll be in the booklet
that's handed out,
so you can take
it home with you.
And I also have this one that
we're going to hand out to you,
and then after
that one, I'm going
to go through the whole thing.
This is one that Mackie made up.
It's based on a very
sophisticated arrangement
of colors relative
to the human brain.
They're not just at
a random on there.
There's a very special
pattern that's on here.
And this one, if you
can't do this one,
then you might be
able to do this one.
This one's easier.
So we'll try the
harder one first,
and for those of you
who can't do this one,
we'll try this one.
And then I've got
since then, people
have been getting
more and more excited
about this, because what it's
doing to this area of the brain
up here, which is your
imagination part of the brain.
When they did an
autopsy on Einstein,
they took this area of his brain
out, and he had a huge one.
And by doing this
meditation for about five
or 10 minutes every day,
you're stimulating that area,
and you'll increase--
it's like doing exercises.
And it really helps in
psychic work and all kinds
of these kinds of things.
This just looks like a bunch
of dots, but what you see
is not always what you get.
And just to be an
example of that,
you see all these
spirals going in here?
Anybody see that?
No, you don't.
There's no spirals
there at all, not any.
Not a one.
What's there is
concentric circles.
And I can prove it to you by
putting this on this one right
here, and I will
move very slowly.
I won't get off of it.
I won't leave it, and
I won't trick you.
I'll come right back,
and it comes right back
to the same place.
It's a circle.
Come up one more.
It comes right back
to the same place.
It's a circle.
They're all just
concentric circles.
It's the background that makes
you think that it's spirals.
Your eyes just do this thing.
Same way up here.
You see these little
bowed out lines
that kind of go like that?
Does everybody see that?
They're straight as an arrow.
I don't know if I can--
how can I do this?
Can you see how that runs right
along the edge of the page?
They come over here?
Straight as an arrow lines.
It's the background that
makes it look like that.
So this is the one
we're now going
to look at, preferably
with somewhat
of a sharp point or a
pen with a point on it.
Does everybody have a pen?
OK.
You see these two--
you want to arrange
the page so it's like this,
and you see these two dots
right here?
Arrange the page so the dots are
in that position on the page.
Don't look at the little one.
If you've got the-- let
me see this just a second.
This big one has a backside.
Some of them have a backside.
Don't look at that.
Look at this big one.
It's much easier.
Now you want to get the
page at the distance
that you would normally
read something.
So if you read a book like
that, then put it out there.
However you read, put it
approximately where you read.
The other thing is
trying to get it flat--
don't have it curving or
bending or anything like that.
It'll make it harder.
Not that it's impossible.
It's just harder.
The second thing
is put on whatever
glasses you use to read,
or take them off whatever
you're trying to do.
Now the next thing is you've
got a pencil or a pen.
Everybody have one?
OK.
Take the pointed
part up like this,
and if this was the-- you can
look at me here like this now.
Here's the thing
I've got holding on.
You want to put the pen
approximately at the phi ratio.
You don't want it here.
You don't want it down here.
Approximately this far
away from the page.
OK?
And then while you've
got it held there,
put the point so the
point is approximately
in the middle between these
two dots only out here.
Just the tip of it, so it's
lined up approximately even
with those two dots.
Now look at the two dots.
Look at the page.
Don't look at the pencil.
And you're going to notice
that your eyes, while you're
looking at the two dots,
you should see two pencils.
Does everybody see that?
>>Yes.
>>Does anybody not
see the two pencils?
Do you know what I
mean by-- it's OK.
Do you not see them?
You see them?
OK.
You see two pencils, right?
Now take the two pencils-- move
your pencil while you're still
looking at the page.
Move it up, down,
left, right, in, out,
whatever you need so
the tip of the two
pencils, the point
of the pencil lines
up exactly on those two dots.
The what?
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>Both points of the pencil
line up on both of the two dots.
OK?
Now once you get
the pencil lined up,
so those two dots are there,
hold your pencil carefully.
Don't move it away or anything,
because that's the focal point.
Now switch your vision from the
paper to the tip of the pencil.
In other words, look at
the tip of the pencil.
Now that you've switched
to the tip of the pencil,
you should see three
dots below you.
Does everybody see that?
No.
If you've got four, you're
not focusing properly.
You need to start over again.
Get the pencils
lined up properly.
OK.
So has everybody
got the three dots?
[CHATTER]
Well, I'm going to go-- people
who haven't got the three dots,
I'm going to go on with
the rest of the group,
and then I'll come back
to you and work on it.
If you can't get the
three dots, you're
going to have to
start over again.
Now for those of you who
have three dots, just relax,
and could we put that
music on, the-- Rick?
That waveform tape?
[LAUGHTER]
For those of you who
have the three dots,
just relax, and you're going
to see the letter T coming off
the tip of your pencil in space.
It's going to come like this.
Here's your pencil.
You're going to see
three dots like this,
and then in space, right
where your pencil is in space,
you're going to see the letter
T kind of stenciled out.
And then if you notice
over here-- actually,
I have to look at
this real quickly.
I don't remember.
OK.
It's an H that looks like
this, and then you're
going to see the word "the."
Actually, that's not what
the T looks like either.
[CHATTER]
It's capital T.
Sorry about that.
I gave you the wrong T. You're
going to see the word "the."
And then above it, you're
going to see the word,
in the same kind of print,
you're going to see this.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Seeing the light.
And it's going to
be 3D, and it's
going to be like a stencil.
You're going to see these
words come out in space.
Now who sees it so far?
OK.
We've got a few people here.
For those of you who are
now seeing this thing--
[LAUGHING]
For those of you who are
seeing it, stay in it.
Just keep staying there, and
take it like a meditation.
And just stay in there,
and just watch it.
And be aware that
between your third eye
here, you will probably
start feeling this tingling
sensation.
You're now doing
something you may not
have done for
thousands of years,
and it's a whole
new way of seeing.
Your area 39 has
been stimulated.
It's opening up.
Your left and right side of
your brains are on at once,
and if you'll just
be real quiet,
you'll rapidly go into theta.
Your brain will be flipping
back and forth into theta.
You're breathing everything.
It's very healthy.
Yes, once you've got the
three dots-- actually,
once you-- also, two things.
Once you see the
"Seeing the light,"
you can remove the pencil.
And once you see
the three dots, you
can also remove the
pencil, because you just
need to get those three
dots, because then you're
in the proper motion.
And then you just gotta relax,
and let your eyes kind of not--
just kind of focus around.
[INAUDIBLE]
You can make a stereogram.
It doesn't have to
be dots like this.
There's lots of ways.
The flower of life
is a stereogram.
You can just take this,
and cross your eyes,
and you'll see a vesica
piscis in the middle.
It'll be totally
three dimensional,
and all the things
are in there together,
as long as you have symmetrical
aspects there on either side.
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>She asked, what does it
do to your normal vision?
[LAUGHTER]
I don't know.
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>I don't know.
I'll tell you, if
anybody has-- if you ever
want to talk to someone about
vision and things like that
or what it does to you
and stuff like that,
there's a man that I recommend,
and his name is Jacob Liberman.
And he wrote the book called--
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>Yeah, "Light and
Future Medicine."
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>"Light and the
Future Medicine."
And he's taught a couple times
at our school when we had it.
And he's got some real
good stuff and some really
incredible ideas.
He used to teach
the Olympic team.
He didn't--
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>He could teach-- no matter
what you do in the Olympics,
he could make you about twice
as good in about three days.
And it's Liberman.
Liber, L-I-B-E-R-M-A-N.
Just for an example,
he would train your-- remember
how you stop your breathing
when things happen?
He would train you so that you
wouldn't stop your breathing.
That was the whole key, which
when you start a learning
process or anything, you
kept your breathing going
rhythmically, and
if you can do that,
you can learn at a
much faster rate.
And he had this thing, and
I watched this with my eyes,
and I just couldn't believe it.
He put you on a trampoline,
a little round trampoline,
where you're jumping
on this trampoline.
And he puts an easel
up here like this,
and he goes like this.
And he puts these
arrows-- he has these rows
and rows of arrows that
are different colors,
and they're all pointing in
different directions at random.
This is the first exercise.
And he has you-- so there'll
be a whole bunch of them
like this on here.
The whole thing will
be filled with them.
And you're on top of
this trampoline looking
at this thing, and
you start jumping.
You have to jump, so
you can completely
clear the whole thing.
And then you have to start
moving your hands like this
so that you're-- you've got to
get your physical body going.
So you're jumping up and down,
and you're moving your hands
to the jump so that
every time you come down,
your hands are like this.
You've got to get
a rhythm going.
And then he tells
you just to read--
tell you to say the direction
the arrows are going.
So every time you come
down, you have to respond.
You can't wait.
So you go up, right, down,
left, up, up, left, up, up,
right like that.
And then after you go
through the whole thing,
he says, OK, now say which one
is up, but on every other one,
say the color.
So you'd go up, blue, red,
green, up, up, black, up, red,
green like that.
You do that one.
Then he'd say, OK,
now ever other one,
you-- he'd keep adding to it.
Say, OK, now you keep saying
the color, the one color,
but every third one, rotate it a
quarter turn, and say that one.
You go, oh, OK.
And you do that, and
it just comes out.
And you're jumping and
doing this whole thing.
And then he just keeps making
it more and more and more
and more complex, and
some of the complexities,
you can't believe it.
And the person's remembering his
breathing and doing his thing,
and it just keeps getting
more and more complex.
He had one, where finally,
he hits you with this poem.
It's "Mary Had a Little
Lamb," something like this.
And he has you doing this thing
with this poem, where you're
saying different words, and
you're putting words in here,
and you're moving
the words around,
and you're doing all this stuff.
And it's so complex,
I don't think
anybody can even remember it
long enough to even write down
what all the stuff was.
And I watched this one guy,
and this guy was going,
I'm doing it.
I can't believe I'm
doing this [INAUDIBLE].
[LAUGHTER]
And he did this entire thing,
this whole complex thing.
And he says, OK,
you're doing it.
You got it.
Now turn around, and
look the other way,
and repeat it backwards.
He says, don't think.
Just do it.
He says, OK.
And he did it.
He repeated something that
took about five minutes
of super complex stuff.
He repeated it backwards.
He just walked off
the thing going.
[LAUGHTER]
Did I do that?
And he had everybody in
the room doing this stuff.
It was really amazing.
And so the same--
just one second.
He says when you're doing any
sports or skiing or anything
else like this, a
lot of is you've
got to get the mind
out of the way,
so the limitations are gone.
And you can't-- immediately, if
someone was just to be thrown
up here and say, do
that, you'd say, well,
I can't-- if you gave them the
whole thing, they'd said, well,
I can't do that.
And then you can't do that.
But he would just
get you so the place
that where you just
could do it, and you can.
So when he would train
the Olympic teams,
he'd get them--
the eye movements.
He's an ophthalmologist,
and he has
a PhD enlightened in some way.
He works with Martin Lillywhite.
And the eye movements are
real important, your eyes
and how you work with
them and your breathing.
And he's pretty good.
He's really good, and he gives
workshops on all of this stuff.
Yeah.
Those Gurdjieffian movements
are-- the sacred dances
are really extraordinary.
Has anybody ever
seen this take place?
There's a movie called
"Meetings with Remarkable Men."
Has anybody ever
seen that movie?
Just a few?
I really recommend
you try to dig it up.
It only came out
for a little while,
and it was too esoteric
for most people,
and it never made very much
money or anything like that.
But the movie is
very, very, very good,
and you'll see a side of Sufism
that's pretty remarkable.
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>Yeah, it is on video, and
you can get it in video stores,
but you'd have to go
to a big one, because--
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>If you notice,
for you, who knows,
that they never show
the enneagram on there.
They show the wings
of the enneagram,
and they secretly put three
men sitting at the points
to complete the enneagram.
They never actually--
never at any time
did they ever actually show the
enneagram on that [INAUDIBLE].
But they did this one dance,
where they-- but again, it
was just three people
that were actually
completing the pattern.
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>Yeah.
Well, the whole thing
is a meditation,
and it puts you into a state.
This is what I would call
an open-eyed meditation.
It's where you're not
going out, but you're
being here to make movement.